---
title: " Death Penalty Abolition Fund: Services to Assist Families Experiencing Trauma"
created: "2021-08-01"
posted: "2021-08-01"
expires: "2021-09-16"
excerpt: The Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority is requesting proposals for grants for Services to Assist Families Experiencing Trauma. Grants will be made with SFY21 Death Penalty Abolition funds. A total of $3 million in Death Penalty Abolition funds is available through this solicitation for use over a period of 36 months."
status: "live"
section: "funding"
showToc: true
---

[DOWNLOAD PDF File of NOFO Instructions and Reference Documents](DPA2162-1815.pdf) {.text-center .nofo-link}

The Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority is requesting proposals for grants for Services to Assist Families Experiencing Trauma. Grants will be made with SFY21 Death Penalty Abolition funds. A total of \$3 million in Death Penalty Abolition funds is available through this solicitation for use over a period of 36 months.

**Application deadline: September 16, 2021**

## Program Requirements

Please refer to pp. 7-8 in the Notice of Funding Opportunity Instructions for a complete list of program requirements.

## Eligibility Information

Agencies must be pre-qualified through the Grant Accountability and Transparency Act (GATA) Grantee Portal, https://grants.illinois.gov/portal/, to become eligible to apply for an award. Applicants must be in good standing with all GATA pre-qualification requirements and received approval of the Internal Control Questionnaire (ICQ) SFY 22, and Programmatic Risk Assessment, before the execution of the grant agreement.

## Eligible Applicants

Community-based non-profit agencies outside the City of Chicago registered in, and in good standing with, the State of Illinois that provide comprehensive mental health services to adults, children, or both.

## Deadline

Completed application materials must be submitted in [AmpliFund](https://il.amplifund.com/Public/Opportunities/Details/df5b66a6-ea85-489f-8fd1-15cb150526e9) by 5:00 p.m., September 16, 2021, to be considered for funding. Proposals will not be accepted by email, mail, fax, or in-person. Incomplete applications will not be reviewed. Late submissions will not be reviewed.

## Available Funds

Grants will be made available with SFY21 Death Penalty Abolition Funds. A minimum of $75,000 and a maximum of $300,000 will be made available to successful applicants through this funding opportunity.

## Period of Performance

Funding is available to support programming for the period of December 1, 2021, through June 30, 2022. Based on program performance and fund availability, the ICJIA may recommend allocation of funding to support an additional 29 months.

## Technical Assistance Session

Technical assistance recordings providing additional information regarding this funding opportunity will be available for viewing beginning at 5:00 p.m. on August 2, 2021.

[VIEW THE REQUIRED TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE WEBINAR RECORDING](https://illinois.webex.com/illinois/ldr.php?RCID=c8c09b35f9334d29a361c575d3cc7172)

Information provided during this webinar recording will be unofficial and not binding on the state. You can find the presentation slides [here.](TechinicalAssistanceRecordingPPTSlides.DPA.pdf)

## Timeline

| Task                                                  |        Date         |
| ----------------------------------------------------- | :-----------------: |
| NOFO posted                                           |      08/02/21       |
| Technical Assistance Recording available              |      08/02/21       |
| NOFO question submission deadline                     |      09/09/21       |
| **Applications due via AmpliFund**                    | September 16, 2021  |
| Budget Committee approval of recommended designations |      10/21/21       |
| Performance Period                                    | 12/01/21 - 06/30/22 |

## Reporting

Recipients must submit periodic financial reports, periodic performance reports, final financial and performance reports, and, a calendar year end financial report in accordance with the CFR Part 200 Uniform Requirements. Future awards and fund drawdowns may be withheld if reports are delinquent.

In addition, funded programs will be required to report performance measures through the U.S. Department of Justice Bureau of Justice Assistance portal at https://bjapmt.ojp.gov.

## Required Documents

The following documents must be completed in AmpliFund by 5:00 p.m., September 16, 2021. Click the link below to download the PDF of the NOFO Instructions and Reference Documents. For help logging into AmpliFund, please follow the guide found [here.](LoggingintoAmpliFundAugust21.pdf) 

- Uniform Grant Application
- Program Narrative
- Budget Template
- Performance Plan Template

[DOWNLOAD PDF File of NOFO Instructions and Reference Documents](DPA2162-1815.PDF)

## Questions

Questions regarding this NOFO may be submitted to CJA.STAFET2021@Illinois.gov until 5:00 p.m., September 9, 2021.

All substantive questions and responses will be posted. Updates to NOFO materials, and questions from applicants and their responses are revised weekly. View them here.

Due to the competitive nature of this solicitation, applicants may not discuss this opportunity directly or indirectly with any ICJIA employee other than the respondent of this email address.

## Contact Information

**Nathaniel Bossick, Strategic Project Coordinator**

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority

CJA.STAFET2021@Illinois.gov
