---
title: "Adult Redeploy Illinois (ARI) Expansion Grants"
created: "2021-07-16"
posted: "2021-07-18"
expires: "2021-08-18"
excerpt: "The Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority is requesting proposals for Adult Redeploy Illinois (ARI) expansion grants. Grants will be made with SFY22 ARI General Revenue funds. A total of $389,000 in funding for ARI planning, implementation, and pilot projects is available through this solicitation for use in SFY22 over a period of nine months."
status: "live"
section: "funding"
showToc: true
---

[LINK TO NOFO PACKET](ARISFY22NOFOPacket.zip) {.text-center .nofo-link}

The Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority is requesting proposals for Adult Redeploy Illinois (ARI) expansion grants. Grants will be made with SFY22 ARI General Revenue funds. A total of \$389,000 in funding for ARI planning, implementation, and pilot projects is available through this solicitation for use in SFY22 over a period of nine months.

**Application deadline: August 18, 2021.**

## Program Requirements

This purpose of this funding opportunity is to expand ARI through grants to local jurisdictions for planning, implementation, and pilot projects that address underserved needs and/or specialized populations, with the overall goal to reduce the number of people committed to prison on probation-eligible charges. This funding opportunity offers three tracks with separate program requirements and goals. Applicants should ensure that the following requirements are clearly referenced in the Program Narrative:

**Track 1: Planning**

Goal: To assemble stakeholder to review data and collaboratively develop a local plan to establish or expand a prison diversion program(s).

Requirements:  
a) Multi-disciplinary team  
b) Planning activities (e.g., hiring facilitator, data analysis, stakeholder training, site visits, community resource mapping)  
c) Final report

**Track 2: Implementation**

Goal: To implement a completed local plan to establish or expand a prison diversion program(s).

Requirements:  
a) Assessment of client risk, needs, and strengths  
b) Evidence-based practices  
c) Performance measurement  
d) Reduction goal and reimbursement provision  
e) Problem-solving court certification (if applicable)  
f) Evaluation

**Track 3: Pilot Projects**

Goal: To pilot a targeted intervention(s) and/or serve a specialized population(s) as part of a prison diversion program(s).

Requirements:  
a) Assessment of client risk, needs, and strengths  
b) Evidence-based practices  
c) Performance measurement

## Eligibility Information

Agencies must be pre-qualified through the Grant Accountability and Transparency Act (GATA) Grantee Portal, [https://grants.illinois.gov/portal/](https://icjia.illinois.gov/gata/), to become eligible to apply for an award. Applicants must be in good standing with all GATA pre-qualification requirements and received approval of the Internal Control Questionnaire (ICQ) SFY22, and Programmatic Risk Assessment, before the execution of the grant agreement.

## Eligible Applicants

County units of government or judicial circuits are eligible to apply for this funding opportunity.

## Deadline

Completed application materials must be emailed to [CJA.AdultRedeployNOFO@illinois.gov](mailto:CJA.AdultRedeployNOFO@illinois.gov) by **11:59 p.m., Wednesday, August 18, 2021,** to be considered for funding. Proposals will not be accepted by mail, fax, or in-person. Incomplete applications will not be reviewed. Late submissions will not be reviewed.

## Available Funds

Approximately \$389,000 in ARI SFY22 General Revenue funds will be made available through this funding opportunity.

## Period of Performance

Funding is available for the period of October 1, 2021, through June 30, 2022. Additional funding under this NOFO may be available depending on track type. No additional funding for Track 1: Planning will be awarded. ARI may recommend funding to support an additional 12 months for Track 2: Implementation and Track 3: Pilot Projects based on program performance and subject to fund availability.

## Technical Assistance Session

Technical assistance recordings providing additional information regarding this funding opportunity will be available for viewing beginning at 3:30 p.m. on August 22, 2021.

[VIEW THE REQUIRED TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE WEBINAR RECORDING](https://www.youtube.com/c/IllinoisCriminalJusticeInformationAuthority/featured?app=desktop) {.text-center .ta-link}

Information provided during this webinar recording will be unofficial and not binding on the state.

## Notice of Intent

Agencies interested in applying are asked to submit an online Notice of Intent by 11:59 p.m., August 11, 2021.

[COMPLETE NOTICE OF INTENT](https://icjia.az1.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_cVlAcykjnzDvVIy) {.text-center .noi-link}

## Timeline

|                                      **Task**                                       |            **Date**            |
| :---------------------------------------------------------------------------------: | :----------------------------: |
|                                     NOFO Posted                                     |         July 19, 2021          |
|                      Technical Assistance Recording available                       |         July 22, 2021          |
|                                Notice of Intent due                                 |      **August 11, 2021**       |
|                          NOFO question submission deadline                          |       **August 5, 2021**       |
|                                **Applications due**                                 | **11:59 p.m. August 18, 2021** |
| Adult Redeploy Illinois Oversight Board review/approval of recommended designations |       **September 2021**       |
|                                 Program start date                                  |        October 1, 2021         |

## Reporting

Recipients must submit periodic financial reports, periodic performance reports, final financial and performance reports, and, a calendar year end financial report in accordance with the CFR Part 200 Uniform Requirements. Future awards and fund drawdowns may be withheld if reports are delinquent.

## Required Documents

The following documents must be emailed to [CJA.AdultRedeployNOFO@illinois.gov](mailto:CJA.AdultRedeployNOFO@illinois.gov) by the **11:59 p.m., Wednesday, August 18, 2021,** deadline for application review. Click the links below to download the complete NOFO Packet.

- Uniform State Grant Application
- Program Narrative
- Budget/Budget Narrative
- Logic Model (Track 2: Implementation)
- Letters of Support (Track 2: Implementation)

[DOWNLOAD ZIP FILE OF NOFO PACKET (INCLUDES ALL REQUIRED APPLICATION DOCUMENTS)](ARISFY22NOFOPacket.zip) {.text-center .nofo-link}

## Questions

Questions regarding this NOFO may be submitted to [CJA.AdultRedeployNOFO@illinois.gov](mailto:CJA.AdultRedeployNOFO@illinois.gov) until **11:59 p.m. August 5, 2021**. Questions and responses will be posted at [https://icjia.illinois.gov/gata/](https://icjia.illinois.gov/gata/).

## Contact Information

Stacey Woods

Criminal Justice Specialist

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority

300 West Adams, Suite 200

Chicago, IL 60606

[CJA.AdultRedeployNOFO@illinois.gov](mailto:CJA.AdultRedeployNOFO@illinois.gov)
